In this video, you will learn about committing to
a local repository using SourceTree. We will start by viewing the status
of files in the working tree and staging area. The File status tab shows the status
of files in the working tree and staging area. When you view a new local repository,
the File status established so that there are no files. That is assuming your project
directory was empty to start with. When a file is first placed in the working
tree, its status is untracked. The file is only in the working tree,
not in the staging area or in the local repository. Here we have created a file name
fileA.txt in the working tree. You can see that the file is untracked
because of the question mark icon and because the pane at the right
shows that fileA.txt is untracked. Any content that was in the project folder
when the local repository was created will also show as untracked. Next, we will add content
to the staging area. Staged content is content that
will be part of the next commit. Staging a file added to the file
list in the staging area. We can add our untracked file
by selecting the three dots and then selecting Stage file. Once a file has been staged,
you can see that it's been added to the staged file pane,
and the icon changes to a plus. You can click the unstaged files
checkbox to add all untracked or modified files at once. This also works to add all
of the files in a directory. If you make changes to a staged file,
its state become modified. You must stage the file again if you
want to add the modified file to the next commit. Notice that the modified
icon contains three dots. Next, we will commit the staged
content to the local repository. Once you have added content to the stage,
committing the content takes a snapshot of the stage content and places it in
the local repository as a commit. You can then feel free to experiment
with the committed content knowing that you can go back
to this snapshot at any time. When you want to begin the process of
creating a snapshot of the staged content, click Commit. When making a commit,
you must specify a commit message, as shown in the bottom window. You want to add a meaningful commit
message that accurately describes the changes that you made to the project. That commit message becomes
part of the project history. You can then click on Commit to add
the commit to the local repository. Finally, we will view the commit history. The History tab shows the commit history. You can see that there is a single
commit in the local repository. You can also see the commit message. The lower frame shows
the details of the commit. You should now be able to use SourceTree
to create commits in the local repository. The File status tab is used to view,
stage, and commit files or directories. Click Commit to begin
the process of committing, and make sure to specify
a meaningful commit message. Use the History tab to view
the project's commits. Now you are ready to perform
the tasks demonstrated in this video. The separate hands-on instructions will
guide you through viewing file status, staging content, committing
content to a local repository, and viewing your commit history.