In this video, we will discuss creating a remote repository. We will start by describing a remote repository. A remote repository is usually a professionally managed repository that is hosted in a data center or in the cloud. It often acts as the central source of truth or official state of the project. And it often integrates with other systems like issue trackers and continuous delivery pipelines. Hosted options for remote git repositories include Bitbucket and GitHub. On-premise options include Bitbucket Server, GitHub Enterprise, as well as some open source on-premise options. The on-premise options can be hosted in a data center or in the cloud. A remote repository is often a bare repository. Because nobody works with the repository locally, there is usually no working tree or staging area on a remote repository. The root directory of a remote repository is similar to the ".git" directory in a local repository. By convention, remote repository names end with ".git". Here's a typical URL for a remote repository hosted on Bitbucket. This repository is named repoa. Notice the ".git" added to the end of the URL to signify that this is a remote repository. Next, we will discuss creating a remote repository. A git hosting provider usually provides a simple interface for creating a remote repository. Here, you can see the Bitbucket interface. You can click the plus sign on the left or the create repository button to begin the process of creating a remote repository. You specify a repository name, the hosting provider will append ".git" to the remote URL for you. Click Create repository to create the remote repository. You will then see that you have a repository hosted on Bitbucket. You have created a remote repository. Next, we will briefly discuss importing and existing remote repository. Instead of creating an empty remote repository, you can import existing remote repositories. Click on the Import repository link instead of creating a new repository. You can specify the existing remote repository by type. Notice that in addition to git, you can import other types of repositories such as a subversion repository. Specify the old repositories URL and then click Import repository. The result will be a remote repository hosted on Bitbucket. To review, a remote repository is a bare repository that often serves as the source of truth for the project. Hosting providers made creating remote repositories easy. You will use what you have learned in this video to help create a remote repository on Bitbucket. Hands on instructions are provided separately from this video.