In this video, we will discuss installing and getting started with the SourceTree Graphical Git client. If you would prefer to go through this course using the command line, there are separate videos and exercises for you. We will begin by discussing the installation of SourceTree. As a final reminder, this video is about the SourceTree Git Client. You have the option of using the command line instead, skip this material if you plan on using the command line. SourceTree is a free, Git client for Windows and the macOS. You can download and learn more about SourceTree by visiting sourcetreeapp.com. If you're interested in using other graphical Git clients, you can visit the URL shown here. Next, we will discuss configuring user information with SourceTree. SourceTree starts with the simple interface shown here. A good place to start is to configure your client. You can do this by clicking on the gear icon in the upper right and selecting accounts. The general tab under accounts contains important configuration settings, including your name and email address. Make sure that this information is correct, because it will include this information with every commit that you make to the repository. Finally, you will learn about creating a default folder or directory on your computer for local repositories. As a side note, this course will interchange the terms directory and folder. They mean the same thing. It's a good idea to keep all of your local repository folders inside one main folder on your computer. This keeps your Git work nicely organized. A common approach is to create a repos folder in your user folder. The location of your repos folder is then specified in the miscellaneous section, under the general tab. Now you should be ready to do some hands-on work. There are separate hands-on instructions related to this video. Those instructions will help guide you through installing SourceTree, assuming you haven't done so already. You will configure your name, and email address, and you will create and specify a default folder for your local repositories.