In this video, we will discuss locations related to Git managed content. We will begin by discussing the working tree. Here are locations related to Git. If you can understand these, you're well on your way to having a solid fundamental understanding of Git. This video is only an introduction to these topics. We will strengthen your understanding of them as you go through the course. We will start by looking at the working tree. We know that a commit is a single snapshot of the project. The working tree is the location on your computer that contains the directories and files of a single commit. This is where you can view and edit the files of the project, preparing them for the next commit. We will learn later that you check out a commit to place its directories and files into the working tree. Next, we will discuss the staging area, which is also sometimes called the index. The staging area contains a list of files that are planned to be included in the next commit that you make. You prepare the staging area just the way that you want it, so that the next commit is a meaningful snapshot of the project. You will learn later that you use the add command to add new or modified files to the staging area. Next, we will discuss the local repository. The local repository contains all of the commits that have been made for the project. These commits represent the version history of the project. Next, we will discuss the project directory. The first three locations that we discussed, the working tree, staging area, and local repository are commonly all contained in a single directory on your local computer. This is called the project directory. The project directory contains the working tree. The working tree contains the directories and files of a single commit or snapshot of your project. You can view and edit these files to prepare them for the next commit. The project directory also contains a hidden directory named.git. This is where the staging area and local repository are located. Notice that if you delete your project directory, you are also deleting your local repository and staging area, because they are in the.git directory. Finally, we will discuss the remote repository. We have seen that the working tree, staging area, and local repository are all located in the project directory on your local machine. The remote repository is usually located in a data center or in the cloud. The remote repository contains the commits of the project, and is often considered the source of truth or official state of the project. When the local and remote repositories are synchronized, they contain exactly the same commits. You now have a basic understanding of the important locations related to Git. The working tree contains the project files for a single commit, the staging area holds a list of files that will be included in the next commit, the local repository contains all of the commits of the project. On your local computer, you have a project directory that contains the working tree as well as a hidden.git directory. The staging area and local repository are located in this directory. The remote repository contains the commits of the project on a remote computer.