This video discusses Git branches. We will start with
an overview of branches. All commits of a project
belong to a branch. By default commits belong
to the master branch. A branch is a set of commits starting with
the most recent commit in the branch and tracing back to
the projects's first commit. In this example, starting from the most
recent commit on the branch,the master branch contains commit B and A. The featureX branch contains commits C,
B and A. Notice that commits B and
A belong to both branches. Lets take a look at some of
the benefits of branches. We will see that creating
a branch is fast and easy, creating a branch only
creates one tiny file, a reference. Branches enable experimentation. Team members can isolate their work so that it doesn't impact others
until the work is ready. Branches are not aware of other branches. This allows you to experiment
with changes to the project while at the same time the team retains
a stable version of the project. If you have an idea for a change, you
can create a branch and test your idea. Later, you can throw out your branch or
merge it into the official project. Branches enable multiple team members
to concurrently work on the project without stepping on each other’s work. Merging the work together later
usually is not too difficult. Branches allow you to support multiple
versions of the project simultaneously. For example, if the project is
a software project with customers and several supported versions. You can update each version if
an important hotfix is necessary Branches can be short-lived or
long-running. Short-lived branches are commonly
called topic or feature branches and usually contain one small
change to the project. For example, a topic branch may
contain a new feature, a bug fix, a hotfix, a configuration change, or any
other change that the project requires. When it's ready, a topic branch is
merged into a long running branch. In this example,
the featureX branch is a topic branch. Two commits where needed
to create the feature, and then the feature was merged
into the master branch. Long-running branches,
like the master branch, live longer than topic branches and
can even live for the life of the project. Examples of branches that might live for the life of a project are a master
branch or a develop branch. We will see later that Git branches are
flexible enough to work with many types of work flows. So you can pick a branching strategy
that works best for your team and for your project. Branches are located in the local
repository and in the remote repository. To view local branches in Sourcetree,
click on the Branches tab. To view remote branches,
click on the Remotes tab. Next, we will discuss creating a branch. Creating a branch simply
creates a new branch label. Here we start with just a master
branch containing three commits. We can create a featureX branch off
of the most recent master commit by creating a featureX branch label,
pointing to the commit. To create the featureX
branch label in Sourcetree, click on Branch to bring
up the branch window. In the window that opens,
select New Branch. Type the name of your branch and
select Create Branch. We'll discuss the other options
in the window a little later. Next, we will discuss checkout. Checkout is usually related to
branches and does two main things. First, it switches the current commit,
which is the commit that the HEAD reference points to,
to the checked out branch label or commit. In this example,
if we were on the master branch and then checked out the featureX branch, the
HEAD reference changes from pointing to the master branch label,
to pointing to the featureX branch label. The second thing that checkout does is it
updates the working tree with the files from the checkout commit. Once you have checked out a branch,
you can work on and commit to the branch. In this example, the featureX label points
to the same commit as the master branch label so at this point the working tree
files will be the same for both branches. Creating a branch will also check out
a branch if the Checkout new branch check box is selected. Checkout new branch is
selected by default. This means that after
you create the branch, the working tree will be
updated if necessary. And the next commit that you make
will belong to the new branch. Here's a look at what happens if
you create a branch without having the Checkout new branch
check box selected. After creating the branch, the HEAD
reference remains on the original branch. The only thing that you've done is
create a tiny featureX reference. If you changed the project to this point
and make a commit, that commit would belong to the master branch because you
have not checked out the featureX branch. In other words,
if you don't check out the new branch, the HEAD referenced still points
to the master branch label. And new commits will be made to the master
branch leaving the featureX label behind. If you create a branch and have the checkout new branch check box
selected, the behavior is different. Checking out the featureX branch
means that the HEAD reference points to the featureX label. And if necessary, the working tree will
be updated with the files from the commit that you checked out. This means that any work that
you commit at this point will belong to the featureX branch and
not the master branch. After you've created and checked out
the featureX branch, as shown on the left, the next commit that is made will
be made to the featureX branch. The HEAD reference moves along
with the featureX label and the master label stays where it was. The master branch no longer
points to the latest commit. In fact, the master branch doesn't know
about the featureX branch label or about the latest commit on featureX. This is how the featureX branch can make
changes to the project without disturbing the master branch. To change branches in Sourcetree, simply click on the branch
that you'd like to change to. This performs a checkout which means
that your working tree will be updated with the files from that branch. And the HEAD reference will change
to point to the new branch label. Once you have switched branches, any work
that you commit is is to that branch. In this example, we have switched from
the featureX branch to the master branch. Our working tree will now contain
the latest files from the master branch. If you attempt to checkout a branch but
have unsaved work on the current branch, Git will notify you. In general, Git will notify you when
it thinks you might lose unsaved work. In this example,
we were on the featureX branch, and made some changes to the working tree. Attempting to switch to the master
branch brought up a confirmation dialog. If you click on OK at this point,
your uncommitted changes will be saved by Sourcetree, and
you are switched to the master branch. The working tree is updated with
the files from that branch. When you switch back to
the featureX branch, you will see your uncommitted changes. If you had checked the discard local
changes button before clicking OK, the local changes would be
lost as you switch branches. Once we have checked out master, we can
do some work in the working tree and create a commit. Now the featureX branch and master branch both have a commit that
doesn't belong to the other branch. You can see that commit D uniquely
belongs to the featureX branch and commit E uniquely belongs
to the master branch. Next, we will discuss detached HEADs. Usually you checkout a branch which checks
out the commit that the branch label points to. But you also have the option of
directly checking out a commit. For example, you might check out
a commit to temporarily view an older version of the project. Checking out a commit rather than
a branch leads to a detached HEAD state. This means that instead of the HEAD
reference pointing to a branch label, the HEAD points directly
to the SHA1 of a commit. So a detached HEAD basically means that
the HEAD reference is detached from a branch label. Git will warn you that if you continue,
you will be in a detached HEAD state. In this example, in the before state we have the master
branch checked out, as is normal. If we then check out commit B, that
commit will become the current commit. And the head reference will
point directly at commit B, creating a detached HEAD state. Here, we are on the master branch and attempt to check out the initial
commit by double clicking on it. Sourcetree will warn you that your working
tree will be updated with the files from that commit, but
you will then be in a detached HEAD state. Click OK to allow this, or Cancel if you
want to remain on the master branch. Temporarily viewing the files of a commit
while in a detached HEAD state is perfectly fine. However, if you want to work on
files of the checked out commit and create new commits, you should create
a branch on that commit first. On the left, we have checked out commit B,
creating a detached HEAD. If we want to create commits
based off of commit B, we should first create a featureX
branch label and checkout that branch. That puts us back in the normal
state where the HEAD reference points to a branch label. The next commit would then be
made to the featureX branch. Finally, we will discuss
deleting a branch label. Deleting a branch really just means
that you're deleting a branch label. Deleting a branch label normally
does not delete any commits, at least not right away. In the example on the left,
we created a featureX branch. This simply added the featureX
label to the latest commit. If we then immediately
delete the featureX branch, all that happens is that
the featureX label is deleted. This shows how truly
lightweight git branches are. One way to delete a branch label in
Sourcetree is to right click on the branch that you want to delete and
select Delete branch. In this case,
we want to delete the featureX branch. Click OK to delete the branch label. Git will check to see if you're putting
committed work at risk by doing this. This can happen if you have commits
on the branch that don't belong to any other branches. If you won't lose any work,
the branch label will be deleted. If deleting the branch label puts
some of your commits at risk, Git will not allow you
delete the branch label. If you know that you don't care
about the unmerged commits, you can click the Force delete check box
before trying to delete the branch label. And the branch label will be deleted. Let's take a look at what could happen if
you check the Force delete check box when deleting a branch label. Let's say that you created
a featureX branch off of commit C of the master branch, as shown. Then you did some work on featureX and
made commit D. At that point, if you tried to
delete the featureX branch label, there would be a problem because commit
D does not belong to any other branch. Sourcetree and Git normally
will not allow you to do that. However, if you select the Force delete
check box, that means that the featureX label will be deleted and your left
with what's called a dangling commit. Commit D doesn't belong to any branch. Git will periodically garbage collect,
looking for and deleting old dangling commits. So be careful if you check
the Force delete checkbox. It assumes that you want to throw away
the work that is in the dangling commits. Here is a review of what we've
discussed in this video. A branch is a set of commits that trace
back to the project's first commit. Creating a branch creates a branch label. Checkout involves updating the HEAD
reference and updating the working tree. A detached HEAD reference
points directly to a commit. Fix a detached HEAD by creating a branch. Deleting a branch deletes a branch label. Dangling commits will eventually
be garbage collected. Now it's time for you to try
the things discussed in this video. Separate hands-on
instructions are provided.